# German: Negatives

nichts: nothing

keine: none

niemals: never

Ich bin kein Junge.: I am not a boy.

Das ist keine Ente.: That is not a duck.

Wir sind keine Frauen.: We are not women.

Ich trage keine Kleidung.: I do not wear any clothes.

Wir trinken keinen Wein.: We are not drinking wine.

Ich esse keine Nudeln.: I do not eat pasta.

Sie ist kein Mädchen.: She is not a girl.

Ich mag kein Gemüse.: I do not like vegetables.

Nicht schlecht.: Not bad.

Du lernst nichts.: You learn nothing.

Keiner trinkt.: Nobody drinks.

Er ist niemals traurig.: He is never sad.

Ich trinke nie Bier.: I never drink beer.

Ich esse nichts.: I do not eat anything.

Ich habe nichts.: I have nothing.

Nichts ist normal.: Nothing is normal.

Sie bringt nichts.: She is not bringing anything.

Ich trage nichts.: I am not wearing anything.

Ich sehe nichts.: I do not see anything.

Sie trinkt niemals Kaffee.: She never drinks coffee.

Keiner spielt.: Nobody plays.

## German Negatives
There are different ways to negate expressions in German (much like in
English you can use "no" in some cases, and "does not" in others). The
German adverb "nicht" (not) is used very often, but sometimes you need
to use "kein" (not a).

## Nicht
Use "nicht" in the following five situations:

Negating a noun that has a definite article like "der Raum" (the room)
in "Der Architekt mag den Raum nicht" (the architect does not like the
room).

Negating a noun that has a possessive pronoun like "sein Glas" (his
glass) in "Der Autor sucht sein Glas nicht." (the writer is not
looking for his glass).

Negating the verb: "Sie trinken nicht" (They/You do not drink).

Negating an adverb or adverbial phrase. For instance, "Mein Mann isst
nicht immer" (my husband does not eat at all times).

Negating an adjective that is used with "sein" (to be): "Du bist nicht
hungrig" (you are not hungry).

## Position of Nicht
Adverbs go in different places in different languages. You cannot
simply place the German adverb "nicht" where you would put "not" in
English.

The German "nicht" will precede adjectives and adverbs as in "Das
Frühstück ist nicht schlecht" (the breakfast is not bad) and "Das Hemd
ist nicht ganz blau" (the shirt is not entirely blue).

For verbs, "nicht" can either precede or follow the verb, depending
the type of verb. Typically, "nicht" comes after conjugated verbs as
in "Die Maus isst nicht" (the mouse does not eat). In conversational
German, the perfect ("Ich habe gegessen" = "I have eaten") is often
used to express simple past occurrences ("I ate"). If such statements
are negated, "nicht" will come before the participle at the end of the
sentence: "Ich habe nicht gegessen" (I did not eat/I have not eaten).

Finally, "nicht" also tends to come at the end of sentences (after
direct objects like "mir" = "me,"" or after yes/no questions if there
is just one conjugated verb). For example, "Die Lehrerin hilft mir
nicht" (The teacher does not help me) and "Hat er den Ball nicht?"
(Does he not have the ball?)

## Kein
Simply put, "kein" is composed of "k + ein" and placed where the
indefinite article would be in a sentence. For instance, look at the
positive and negative statement about each noun: "ein Mann" (a man)
versus "kein Mann" (not a/not one man), and "eine Frau" versus "keine
Frau."

"Kein" is also used for negating nouns that have no article: "Man hat
Brot" (one has bread) versus "Man hat kein Brot" (one has no bread).

## Nicht versus Nichts
"Nicht" is an adverb and is useful for negations. On the other hand,
"nichts" (nothing/anything) is a pronoun and its meaning is different
from that of "nicht." Using "nicht" simply negates a fact, and is less
overarching than "nichts." For example, "Der Schüler lernt nicht" (the
student does not learn) is less extreme than "Der Schüler lernt
nichts" (the student does not learn anything).

The word "nichts" can also be a noun if capitalized ("das Nichts" =
nothingness).

Das ist kein Apfel.: That is not an apple.

Magst du kein Wasser?: Do you not like water?

Katzen mögen kein Wasser.: Cats do not like water.

Sie sind keine Männer.: They are not men.

Kühe tragen keine Hüte.: Cows do not wear hats.

Das ist keine Katze.: That is not a cat.

Ich habe keine Katze.: I do not have a cat.

Ich bin kein Mädchen.: I am not a girl.

Das ist kein Schuh.: That is not a shoe.

Nein, ich bin keine Banane!: No, I am not a banana!

Niemand trinkt.: Nobody drinks.

Ich schwimme nie.: I never swim.

Sie geht nie schwimmen.: She never goes swimming.

Ihr beiden wollt Katzen!: The two of you want cats!

Die beiden Frauen sind toll.: The two women are terrific.

Fische trinken keinen Orangensafe!: Fish don't drink orange juice.

Das ist kein Fleisch.: That is not meat.
