# German: Conjunctions

oder: or

denn: because

aber: but

entweder: either

wenn: if

obwohl: although

da: since

weil: because

dass: that

Aber du siehst es!: But you see it!

Sind wir Frauen oder Mädchen?: Are we women or girls?

Doch das ist nicht richtig.: But that is not correct.

Enweder ja oder nein.: Either yes or no

Der Junge hat Hunger, doch er isst nicht.: The boy is hungry, yet he
does not eat.

Aber der Kaffee ist nicht süß.: But the coffee is not sweet.

Bist du ein Junge oder ein Mann?: Are you a boy or a man?

Bist do ein Mann oder eine Frau?: Are you a man or a woman?

Der Knopf ist groß, aber nicht rund.: The button is big, but not
round.

Ist das ein Apfel oder eine Orange?: Is that an apple or an orange?

Entweder gehst du oder ich gehe!: Either you go or I go!

Ich mag keine Orangen, aber ich mag Äpfel.: I do not like oranges, but
I like apples.

Ist das ein Schloss oder ein Hotel?: Is that a palace or a hotel?

Ja order nein?: Yes or no?

Sind wir Männer oder Jungen?: Are we men or boys?

Fleisch oder Fisch?: Meat or fish?

Groß oder klein?: Large or small?

Eis oder Eier?: Ice cream or eggs?

Wenn du willst.: If you want.

Weil ich schnell bin?: Because I am fast?

Er sieht, dass du ein Buch hast.: He sees that you have a book.

Du trinkst, weil du Durst hast.: You drink because you are thirsty.

Wenn sie kommt, essen wir.: When she comes, we eat.

Wenn er nicht kommt, gehen wir nicht.: If he does not come, we do not
go.

Der Käse ist gut, obwohl er alt ist.: The cheese is good although it
is old.

Ich mag ihn, da er das Essen bezahlt.: I like him since he is paying
for the food.

Solange er spielt, ist er gesund.: As long as he is playing, he is
healthy.

Ich esse es, obwohl ich es nicht mag.: I am eating it although I do
not like it.

Da ich Hunger habe, esse ich.: Since I am hungry, I am eating.

Solange der Hund schläft, ist er süß.: As long as the dog is sleeping,
he is cute.

Wir laufen, obwohl wir müde sind.: We are running even though we are
tired.

Solange wir schnell sind, rennen wir.: As long as we are fast, we run.

Er ist schön, obwohl er alt ist.: He is handsome, even though he is
old.

Er rennt, sobald er Wasser sieht.: He runs as soon as he sees water.

Ich spiele nicht, sondern ich lese.: I am not playing, but reading.

Ich lerne nicht Englisch, sondern Deutsch.: I do not learn English,
but German.

Das ist kein Bett, sondern ein Sofa.: That is not a bed, but a couch.

Das ist kein Buch, sondern ein Mantel.: That is not a book, but a
coat.

Die Schuhe sind nicht groß, sondern klein.: The shoes are not big, but
small.

Ich esse nicht, sondern ich trinke.: I do not eat, but I drink.

## German Conjunctions
A conjunction like "wenn" (when) or "und" (and) connects two parts of
a sentence together.

__Coordinating conjunctions__ form a group of coordinators (like "und"
= and; "aber" = but), which combine two items of equal importance;
here, each clause can stand on its own and the word order does not
change.

Examples: und, oder, aber, denn

__Subordinating conjunctions__ combine an independent clause with a
dependent clause; the dependent clause cannot stand on its own and its
word order will be different than if it did. For instance, in "Er ist
hungrig, weil er nichts aß" (he is hungry, because he ate nothing),
the clause starting with "weil" is the dependent clause, which would
be ordered as "er aß nichts" (he ate nothing) if it stood by itself.

Examples: weil, wenn, dass, obwohl

__Correlative conjunctions__ work in pairs to join sentence parts of
equal importance. For instance, "entweder...oder" (either...or) is
such a pair and can be used like this: "Der Schuh ist entweder blau
oder rot" (this shoe is either blue or red).

In German, conjunctions do not change with the case (i.e. they are not
declinable).

Ich komme, sobald ich ihn habe.: I am coming as soon as I have him.

Es ist perfekt, denn es ist rund. / Es ist perfekt, weil es rund ist.:
It is perfect, because it is round.

Die Frauen trinken das Wasser nicht, denn es ist schmutzig.: The women
do not drink the water because it is dirty.
